Nanotoolworks curates, develops and maintains open-source repositories that pertain to the development of skills to accomplish realtime imaging, machine vision and measurement of properties at the nanoscale level. The ultimate objective is more precise automated control of process variables; the immediate objective is more informed process development intelligence or the ability to furnish a *picture* of what is happening in realtime as atoms are being deposited or etched.

### Human Machine-Augmented Learning Process in List Curation 

What we do is intentionally pretty simple ... but it can be a bit tedious and necessarily hands-on and hard because ****we strongly believe in teaching machines to do most of the tedious parts of learning, searching and recommending for us.***

Teaching machines to learn makes us smarter about how we learn. A human who thinks differently, perhaps incoherently, but necessarily intuitively is necessary to refine the artifically intelligent systems and augment the development of better machine learning methods.  

Most importantly, it's about the unpredictability of competition coming from others who think different.  It is not exactly necessary for one to worry about what one is attempting to invent -- it's necessary to have one's head in the game about what others are inventing. Collaborative competition is necessary for the extension of knowledge. Humility matters.

We might stumble across inventions as we constantly adapt ... but the objective is to more practically use better training of our semantic machine learning models. List curation looks simple. This is really about [*taking research out of the lab*](https://www.deepmind.com/blog/maximising-the-impact-of-our-breakthroughs) ***before it's fully cooked*** while the research is still developing.

#### We are not born smart, we *eventually might* get smart ... but that's only possible, if we GET STARTED

The deceptively simple start begans with a general idea for a list ... like scribbling a sketch on an erasable board, we will probably start over a few times ... we get started knowing that we will almost certainly throw a few levels of ideas away -- the ideas for lists get better over time and we will of course refine the scope of the list, but at first -- it's mostly important to just iterate on iterations ... so the start is to just get started *with ANY idea*. 

Getting started means coherently collecting a few hundred papers in order to get a feel for the lay of the land ... reading entries in Wikipedia does not really constitute getting started ... sure, that can be part of what is necessary to actually understand what one is reading, but it's not a substitute for a LOT of reading and iterative refinement of the scope of collection. Speedreading abstracts and then reading a couple hundred papers might sound rather labor intensive ... it's maybe somewhat discouraging at first, because learning jargon, especially from **#DeepTech** niche can be pretty tedious, especially in the realm of *MarketingSpeak* or psuedo-science, but such reading is necessarily humbling and frustrating, ie if you actually understand what you're reading, you are probably doing it wrong OR reading well within your comfort level. It is necessary to be humbled and confused at first --- one must read BROADLY and jump ahead to infer more than what one knows

As an example, we might start with something like [a recent paper on geometric fitting using neural estimation](https://www.connectedpapers.com/main/af7d708450233c969ef746e200cca5daa3611190/Finding-NEEMo%3A-Geometric-Fitting-using-Neural-Estimation-of-the-Energy-Mover's-Distance/graph) and then we likely explore connections to a depth five  or six levels ... starting with the next level of connection, reaching into papers such as one on [Invertible Dense Networks (i-DenseNets)](https://www.connectedpapers.com/main/489fab3d30e6e35c51de010f78a78cecd3d758a0/Connected-Papers-%7C-Find-and-explore-academic-papers/graph)) ... reading critically, with extreme skepticism at first -- after exploring for a while, something like 250 or 500 abstracts and papers should give us general feel for the lay of the land. 

